The story begins in 558, when the Turkish army lead by King Sava, invades the eastern province of the Persian Empire.
The Turkish are constantly raiding the Persians access to the Silk Road,
cutting off empire’s eastern trade routes.The Persian King must defeat the Turks
and expel them from his lands. To do this, the King appoints Bahram Chubina as
commander in chief to destroy King Sava’s army. Bahram Chubina is an arrogant and fierce
warrior, of the noble Iranian family Mehran. A tall and slender man, known for loving
the horrific combat that takes place during war. He is like a brave male lion
that laughs joyfully in the face of war. Before the battle ensues, both leaders send
each other threating messages, urging the other to retreat or face death. King Sava exclaims,
"For my troops and elephants I trample, A mountain if it cometh in my path”.
Bahram responds with threating to cut of his head, saying,
“But ill luck brought thee hither, being fain. That ill befall thy head”.
King Sava travels to Bahram himself to deliver his final message in person, saying,
“ I will cut of his head and carry it before the Shah,
it is not worth my while to stick it on my spear upon the road.”
Later that evening Bahram dreams of the amusements of war, and decides he will ambush
Before dawn, Bahram and his 12,000 Persian soldiers ambush King Sava and his Turkish army.
The Persians trample the Turks from the East like an “iron mountain”.
Bahram comes barrelling through the battle on horse back yelling,
“Illustrious men! Ill fate hath marked them out.
Rain swords on them, and quit you in the fight like cavaliers”.
As the arrogant solider comes trampling through from the East,
with his bow preached above his head, aiming at the King.
He fires!
The Persian eagle-feathered arrow, flies through the hectic battlefield, piercing King Sava’s spine.
He falls not only to the blood soaked ground
beneath him but from his golden throne.
The Turkish are defeated by the Persian army. Most of remaining injured Turkish prisoners are
killed, crushed under the Persian elephants heavy step or beheaded.
The battlefield is left as a “sea of blood”.
A few Turkish troops are forced to walk home with the heads of their fellow soldiers
to tell the tale of the Turkish slaughter lead by Bahram Chubina.
This is just the beginning of Bahram Chubina’s story,
he continues on to claim the throne over King Sava’s son Parmuda.
Becoming a significant character in the Shahnama.